Added dynamic registry documentation and example implementation (#582)
FabricMC/fabric-docs: develop/dynamic-registry.md

---
title: Dynamic Registry
description: A guide to creating your own dynamic registry with the Fabric API.
authors:
  - Jimmy474
---

This page explains what a dynamic registry is, why it is useful, and how to create and use one with the Fabric API.

> # General Information

Reviewer: This should not be a single-`#` header. It implies the rest of the page is under the "General Information" section, and is inconsistent with the two triple-`###` headers following it.

> A registry is a centralized _phonebook_ that maps unique IDs such as `minecraft:items` to specific objects. Static registries such as the block and item registries are frozen during startup, but dynamic registries are populated at runtime from JSON files in data packs.

Reviewer 2: “Phonebook” isn’t a standard term and is more like a metaphor, so I’d style the first paragraph as such:

```suggestion
A **registry** is a centralized "phonebook" that maps unique IDs such as `minecraft:items` to specific objects. Static registries such as the block and item registries are frozen during startup, but dynamic registries are populated at runtime from JSON files in data packs.
```

> A **registry** is a centralized "phonebook" that maps unique IDs such as `minecraft:items` to specific objects. Static registries such as the block and item registries are frozen during startup, but dynamic registries are populated at runtime from JSON files in data packs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A **registry** is a centralized "phonebook" that maps unique IDs such as `minecraft:items` to specific objects. Static registries, such as the block and item registries, are frozen during startup, but dynamic registries are populated at runtime from JSON files in data packs.
```

- Dynamic registries solve the "hardcoded content" problem. Instead of baking every skill, quest, or upgrade directly into Java code with enums or static lists, you define a blueprint in code and let the actual content come from data.

## Creating a Dynamic Registry {#creating-a-dynamic-registry}

Let's create a dynamic registry for a magic skill system.

### Class Setup {#class-setup}

First, create the class that represents a registry entry. It is a simple data holder for values tied to each magic skill like name, mana cost, etc. A [`Codec`](./codecs) is required to encode and decode the entry.

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/MagicSkillsRegistryEntry.java#main

- `name` is the name of the skill.
- `manaCost` is the mana cost of the skill.
- `onUseMcFunction` is a [function](<https://minecraft.wiki/w/Function_(Java_Edition)>) that the server can execute when the skill is used. Having this in the registry will let other datapacks customize the logic of any skill, or add new skills with custom functions.

### Registering the Registry {#registering-the-registry}

> Each registry is registered with a key that uniquely identifies it, so let's declare a key in a Registries class:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each registry is registered with a key that uniquely identifies it, so let's create that key and a class to hold it. We'll call this class `ExampleModRegistries`:
```

::: tip

Declaring the registry keys in a common class is recommended because it will make it easier to manage multiple registries.

:::

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#main

Call `ExampleModRegistries.initialize()` from your [mod's initializer](./getting-started/project-structure#entrypoints).

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModDynamicRegistries.java#main

> Then register it with Fabric API's `DynamicRegistries`, which provides two distinct strategies: `DynamicRegistries.register()`, or `DynamicRegistries.registerSynced()`.

Reviewer 3: Where are these methods called? Do they go in the mod initializer? In `ExampleModRegistries.initialize`?

Author: yes, i initially had full code blocks for their usage examples to prevent this exact confusion but i was told that its not required.

#### Using `register()` {#using-register}

`DynamicRegistries.register()` creates a non-synced registry. It is loaded on the server only, and is not available on the client. Use this when the client never needs to read the registry.

> It's not relevant in our example, but here's how to do it otherwise:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's not relevant in our example, but here's how to do it:
```

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#simple

#### Using `registerSynced()` {#using-register-synced}

`DynamicRegistries.registerSynced()` creates a synced registry. When a client joins a world, the server automatically synchronizes that registry's data with the client. Use this when the client needs the data for rendering, UI, tooltips, or other client-side logic.

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#synced

`DynamicRegistries.registerSynced()` has an overload that accepts a second codec for client-side decoding. This is useful if the client does not need every field from the full server entry.

> In our case, we only need the [`name`](#class-setup) and [`manaCost`](#class-setup) field on the client side, so let's create a [`Codec`](./codecs) that doesn't include [`onUseMcFunction`](#class-setup):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In our case, we only need the [`name`](#class-setup) and [`manaCost`](#class-setup) field on the client side, so let's create a [`Codec`](./codecs) that doesn't include [`onUseMcFunction`](#class-setup), and pass that codec to `registerSynced`:
```

Instances of `RegistryAccess` can be acquired from many classes, but the most common ones are `MinecraftServer`, `ServerLevel`, `ClientLevel`, `Entity`, and more.

::: warning

When accessing the `RegistryAccess` instance from a client-only class, such as `ClientLevel`, only [synced registries](#using-register-synced) are available.

:::

#### Get the Entire Registry {#get-the-entire-registry}

Registries can be accessed using the `lookup` method of `RegistryAccess` which returns a `Optional<Registry<T>>` where `T` is the type of the registry.

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#get_registry

#### Get a Specific Entry {#get-a-specific-entry}

Specific entries can be accessed using the `get` method of `RegistryAccess` which returns a `Optional<Holder.Reference<T>>` where `T` is the type of the registry.

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#get_specific_registry_entry

Read [Entry ID](#entry-id) to know how to get the `HEALING_SKILL_ENTRY_ID`.

> In our case we can use this method to get the entry for magic skill used by user on server, then extract the [`onUseMcFunction`](#class-setup) field to execute the mcfunction.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In our case, we can use this method to get the entry for magic skill used by user on server, then extract the [`onUseMcFunction`](#class-setup) field to execute the mcfunction.
```

1. They separate your logic from your content.
2. Other modders can add new content through data packs instead of patching your code.
3. Players can override default values, such as a mana cost or upgrade price in a skills registry, by replacing data entries in a data pack.
4. Dynamic registry data is world-specific. It loads when a world opens and is cleared when that world closes.
5. Dynamic registries solve the "hardcoded content" problem. Instead of baking every skill, quest, or upgrade directly into Java code with enums or static lists, you define a blueprint in code and let the actual content come from data.

## Creating a Dynamic Registry {#creating-a-dynamic-registry}

Let's create a dynamic registry for a magic skill system.

### Class Setup {#class-setup}

First, create the class that represents a registry entry. It is a simple data holder for values tied to each magic skill like name, mana cost, etc. A [`Codec`](./codecs.md) is required to encode and decode the entry.

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/MagicSkillsRegistryEntry.java#main

- `name` is the name of the skill.
- `manaCost` is the mana cost of the skill.

> - `onUseMcFunction` is a mcfunction that the server can execute when the skill is used. having this in the registry will let other datapacks customize the logic of any skill or add new skills with their own mcfunction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `onUseMcFunction` is an mcfunction that the server can execute when the skill is used. having this in the registry will let other datapacks customize the logic of any skill or add new skills with their own mcfunction.
```

### Registering the Registry {#registering-the-registry}

> Each registry requires a key that uniquely identifies that registry and is required for the registration, So create a key for the registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each registry requires a key that uniquely identifies that registry and is required for the registration, so create a key for your registry:
```

:::

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#main

Then register it with Fabric API's `DynamicRegistries` class.
There are two ways to register a dynamic registry:

1. `DynamicRegistries.register()`
2. `DynamicRegistries.registerSynced()`

#### Using `register()` {#using-register}

`DynamicRegistries.register()` creates a non-synced registry. It is loaded only on the server and is not available on the client. Use this when the client never needs to read the registry. In our case we do need the client to have access to the magic registry, but here is how it can be used otherwise.

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#simple

#### Using `registerSynced()` {#using-register-synced}

`DynamicRegistries.registerSynced()` creates a synced registry. When a client joins a world, the server automatically synchronizes that registry's data with the client. Use this when the client needs the data for rendering, UI, tooltips, or other client-side logic.

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#synced

> `DynamicRegistries.registerSynced()` has an overload that accepts a second codec for client-side decoding. This is useful if the client does not need every field from the full server entry. In our case we only need the [`name`](#class-setup) and [`manaCost`](#class-setup) field for client UI, So we will create a [`Codec`](./codecs.md) that doesn't include the [`onUseMcFunction`](#class-setup) field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`DynamicRegistries.registerSynced()` has an overload that accepts a second codec for client-side decoding. This is useful if the client does not need every field from the full server entry. In our case we only need the [`name`](#class-setup) and [`manaCost`](#class-setup) field for client UI, so we create a [`Codec`](./codecs.md) that doesn't include the [`onUseMcFunction`](#class-setup) field.
```

---
title: Dynamic Registry
description: A guide to creating your own dynamic registry with the Fabric API.
authors:
  - Jimmy474
---

This page explains what a dynamic registry is, why it is useful, and how to create and use one with the Fabric API.

## General Information {#general-information}

### What Is a Dynamic Registry? {#what-is-a-dynamic-registry}

A registry is a centralized _phonebook_ that maps unique IDs such as `minecraft:items` to specific objects. Static registries such as the block and item registries are frozen during startup, but dynamic registries are populated at runtime from JSON files in data packs.

Dynamic registries act as a bridge between your hardcoded logic and external data supplied by players, modpacks, or other mods.

### Why Are They Useful? {#why-are-they-useful}

1. They separate your logic from your content.
2. Other modders can add new content through data packs instead of patching your code.
3. Players can override default values, such as a mana cost or upgrade price in a skills registry, by replacing data entries in a data pack.
4. Dynamic registry data is world-specific. It loads when a world opens and is cleared when that world closes.

> ### What Problems Do They Solve? {#what-problems-do-they-solve}

Reviewer 2: I think this section could be incorporated into the previous section.

Author: ok i merged those sections

---
title: Dynamic Registry

> description: A guide to creating your own dynamic registry with the Fabric API.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
description: An introduction to dynamic registries - what are they, what are they useful for, and how to create your own with the Fabric API.
```

authors:
  - Jimmy474
---

This page explains what a dynamic registry is, why it is useful, and how to create and use one with the Fabric API.

## General Information {#general-information}

### What Is a Dynamic Registry? {#what-is-a-dynamic-registry}

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Removed because the page description already shows up in the page.

A registry is a centralized _phonebook_ that maps unique IDs such as `minecraft:items` to specific objects. Static registries such as the block and item registries are frozen during startup, but dynamic registries are populated at runtime from JSON files in data packs.

Dynamic registries act as a bridge between your hardcoded logic and external data supplied by players, modpacks, or other mods.

### Why Are They Useful? {#why-are-they-useful}

1. They separate your logic from your content.
2. Other modders can add new content through data packs instead of patching your code.
3. Players can override default values, such as a mana cost or upgrade price in a skills registry, by replacing data entries in a data pack.
4. Dynamic registry data is world-specific. It loads when a world opens and is cleared when that world closes.

> 5. Dynamic registries solve the "hardcoded content" problem. Instead of baking every skill, quest, or upgrade directly into Java code with enums or static lists, you define a blueprint in code and let the actual content come from data.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
They are useful for many reasons:

- They separate logic from content.
- Other modders can add new content through data packs instead of patching your code.
- Players can override default values, such as mana cost or upgrade price, by replacing data entries in a data pack.
- Dynamic registry data is world-specific. It loads when a world opens and is cleared when that world closes.
- Dynamic registries solve the "hardcoded content" problem. Instead of baking every skill, quest, or upgrade directly into Java code with enums or static lists, you define a blueprint in code and let the actual content come from data.
```

## Creating a Dynamic Registry {#creating-a-dynamic-registry}

Let's create a dynamic registry for a magic skill system.

### Class Setup {#class-setup}

First, create the class that represents a registry entry. It is a simple data holder for values tied to each magic skill like name, mana cost, etc. A [`Codec`](./codecs) is required to encode and decode the entry.

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/MagicSkillsRegistryEntry.java#main

- `name` is the name of the skill.
- `manaCost` is the mana cost of the skill.

> - `onUseMcFunction` is an mcfunction that the server can execute when the skill is used. having this in the registry will let other datapacks customize the logic of any skill or add new skills with their own mcfunction.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `onUseMcFunction` is a [function](<https://minecraft.wiki/w/Function_(Java_Edition)>) that the server can execute when the skill is used. Having this in the registry will let other datapacks customize the logic of any skill, or add new skills with custom functions.
```

### Registering the Registry {#registering-the-registry}

> Each registry requires a key that uniquely identifies that registry and is required for the registration, so create a key for your registry:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Each registry is registered with a key that uniquely identifies it, so let's declare a key in a Registries class:
```

::: tip

> While technically the keys can be defined anywhere, Using a common class for keys is recommended if you plan to have more registries in the future. That way it is easier to manage them.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Declaring the registry keys in a common class is recommended because it will make it easier to manage multiple registries.
```

:::

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#main

Then register it with Fabric API's `DynamicRegistries` class.
There are two ways to register a dynamic registry:

1. `DynamicRegistries.register()`

> 2. `DynamicRegistries.registerSynced()`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Then register it with Fabric API's `DynamicRegistries`, which provides two distinct strategies: `DynamicRegistries.register()`, or `DynamicRegistries.registerSynced()`.
```

#### Using `register()` {#using-register}

> `DynamicRegistries.register()` creates a non-synced registry. It is loaded only on the server and is not available on the client. Use this when the client never needs to read the registry. In our case we do need the client to have access to the magic registry, but here is how it can be used otherwise.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`DynamicRegistries.register()` creates a non-synced registry. It is loaded on the server only, and is not available on the client. Use this when the client never needs to read the registry.

It's not relevant in our example, but here's how to do it otherwise:
```

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#simple

#### Using `registerSynced()` {#using-register-synced}

`DynamicRegistries.registerSynced()` creates a synced registry. When a client joins a world, the server automatically synchronizes that registry's data with the client. Use this when the client needs the data for rendering, UI, tooltips, or other client-side logic.

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#synced

> `DynamicRegistries.registerSynced()` has an overload that accepts a second codec for client-side decoding. This is useful if the client does not need every field from the full server entry. In our case we only need the [`name`](#class-setup) and [`manaCost`](#class-setup) field for client UI, so we create a [`Codec`](./codecs) that doesn't include the [`onUseMcFunction`](#class-setup) field.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`DynamicRegistries.registerSynced()` has an overload that accepts a second codec for client-side decoding. This is useful if the client does not need every field from the full server entry.

In our case, we only need the [`name`](#class-setup) and [`manaCost`](#class-setup) field on the client side, so let's create a [`Codec`](./codecs) that doesn't include [`onUseMcFunction`](#class-setup):
```

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/MagicSkillsRegistryEntry.java#client_codec
<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#double_codec

> #### `SyncOption` {#syncoption}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### `SyncOption` {#sync-option}
```

Both overloads of `DynamicRegistries.registerSynced()` accepts `SyncOption...` varargs at the end to configure synchronization behavior.

> Available `SyncOption` values include:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Both overloads of `DynamicRegistries.registerSynced()` accept `SyncOption` arguments at the end to configure synchronization behavior. Such options include:
```

> 1. `SKIP_WHEN_EMPTY`: Synchronizes the registry only when it contains entries. This can help with compatibility for clients that may not need the registry.

Reviewer 4: We're mentioning one option only?

Author: there are no other options, its an enum and only has 1 entry.

Reviewer 5: Probably shouldn't be structured like this then.

Example:

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#with_option

Or for two codecs use

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#with_option_double_codec

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

no need to mention this again imo.

#### Initialize the Class {#initialize-the-class}

Call `ExampleModRegistries.initialize()` from your [mod's initializer](./getting-started/project-structure#entrypoints).

> <<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModDynamicRegistries.java#main

Reviewer 4: Let's move this within `#registering-the-registry`, without a separate heading.

Right after `<<< ExampleModRegistries.java#main`

### Populating the Registry {#populating-the-registry}

> JSON files are used for creating registry entries. The JSON structure must match [`MagicSkillsRegistryEntry`](#class-setup), In this example our entry class has three fields so the JSON file for _healing_spell_ entry should look like this

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
JSON files are used for creating registry entries. The JSON structure must match the [`MagicSkillsRegistryEntry`](#class-setup). In this example, our entry class has three fields, so the JSON file for `healing_spell` entry might look like this:
```

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/resources/data/example-mod/example-mod/magic_skills_registry/healing_spell.json

Entry JSON files are stored at

`src/main/resources/data/<entry namespace>/<registry namespace>/<registry path>/`

For our [`MAGIC_SKILLS_REGISTRY_KEY`](#registering-the-registry) the JSON files belong at

> `src/main/resources/data/example-mod/example-mod/magic_skills_registry/`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Entry JSON files are stored under `src/main/resources/data/example-mod/example-mod/magic_skills_registry/`.
```

::: info

The repeated `example-mod/example-mod` is not a mistake.

> The first `example-mod` is the namespace of the entry being added. The second `example-mod` comes from the registry ID itself. Using your mod ID for both is normal, and it allows other mods or data packs to add entries to your registry under their own namespace.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The first `example-mod` is the namespace of the entry being added. The second `example-mod` comes from the registry ID itself. Using your mod ID for both is normal, and it allows other mods or data packs to add entries to your registry under their own namespace.

For example, `another-mod` might want to add elements to our `magic_skills_registry`, and it would do that with files under `src/main/resources/data/another-mod/example-mod/magic_skills_registry/`.
```

:::

#### Entry ID {#entry-id}

> The entry ID is a unique key for each entry, and it can be useful for accessing a specific entry from a registry. The filename and the [registry key](#registering-the-registry) are used to make the entry ID. Our entry JSON file is named `healing_spell.json`, therefore, the entry ID is:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The entry ID is a unique key for each entry, and it can be useful for accessing a specific entry from a registry. It is composed of the filename and the [registry key](#registering-the-registry). For example, since our entry JSON file is named `healing_spell.json`, the entry ID is:
```

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#entry_id

### Accessing the Registry Data {#accessing-the-registry-data}

Dynamic registries are loaded with the world and can be accessed through `RegistryAccess` class by using your registry key.

> Instances of `RegistryAccess` can be acquired from many classes but the most common ones are `MinecraftServer`, `ServerLevel`, `ClientLevel`, `Entity`, etc.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Dynamic registries are loaded with the world, and can be accessed through the `RegistryAccess` class by using your registry key.
Instances of `RegistryAccess` can be acquired from many classes, but the most common ones are `MinecraftServer`, `ServerLevel`, `ClientLevel`, `Entity`, and more.
```

::: warning

> Only **synced registries** are available if accessing the `RegistryAccess` instance from a Client only class such as `ClientLevel`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When accessing the `RegistryAccess` instance from a client-only class, such as `ClientLevel`, only [synced registries](#using-register-synced) are available.
```

:::

#### Get the Entire Registry {#get-the-entire-registry}

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#get_registry

Usage:

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#get_registry_usage

#### Get a Specific Entry {#get-a-specific-entry}

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#get_specific_registry_entry

Usage:

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#get_specific_registry_entry_usage

> Read [Entry ID](#entry-id) to know how to get the `entryId`.

Reviewer 4: I'll need someone to look at this - do we need to add these helpers?
Why use `ExampleModRegistries.getRegistry(registryAccess, registryKey)` instead of `registryAccess.lookup(registryKey)`?

Author: i added the helper method to show the return type of `registryAccess.lookup(registryKey)` and where the generic is. but i guess we could just show the example and and tell what its return type is.

> In our case we can use this method to get the entry for magic skill used by user on server, then extract the [`onUseMcFunction`](#class-setup) field to execute the mcfunction.

Reviewer 4: This is not being shown I think? There's only a `println`

#### Iterate Over All Entries {#iterate-over-all-entries}

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#iterate_over_registry_entries

Usage:

<<< @/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/dynamic_registries/ExampleModRegistries.java#iterate_over_registry_entries_usage

> In our case we can use this method to get all the entries in the registry and show them in a client UI.

Reviewer 4: Ditto, there's only a `println`, but showing a UI might prove more complex...

I was gonna say "just print it in chat" but that's not client-side? or can the client show messages in chat that are not shown for other players or through the server?

Author: using a more realistic example now

### Tags For Custom Registry Entries {#tags-for-custom-registry-entries}

> Tags are a way to group multiple entries together. For example, we can create tags like _defensive_, _attacking_, etc. to group similar magic skills together.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Tags are a way to group multiple entries together. For example, we can create tags like _attack_ and _defense_ to group similar magic skills together.
```

Tags are defined in

`data/<entry namespace>/tags/<registry namespace>/<registry path>/`.

In this example, if we want to create a tag for our [`MagicSkillsRegistryEntry`](#class-setup), we would create a tag file like:

> `data/example-mod/tags/example-mod/magic_skills_registry/attacking_skills.json`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example, the attacking tag would be defined under `data/example-mod/tags/example-mod/magic_skills_registry/attacking_skills.json`:
```

Maybe rename the tag to `attack_skills`?
